Docsite3 (#1380)
microsoft/rnx-kit: docsite/docs/guides/dependency-management.mdx

import DepCheckInit from "./_dep-check-init.mdx";
import PackageCommand from "./_package-command.mdx";
import PackageRunCommand from "./_package-run-command.mdx";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Dependency Management

Ready for some magic? This guide will fundamentally change the way you maintain
your React Native applications and libraries. It all centers on one tool -- the
dependency manager.

:::tip

Not quite ready to make the leap? Learn more about
[dependencies](/docs/dependencies) first.

:::

> ## On-boarding

Reviewer: noob question: is it "on-boarding" or "onboarding"?

Author: Good catch! I checked a few online sources including the dictionary, and it should not be hyphenated. I fixed all of the references in this page.

**Review** and **test** your changes before committing. This is important, even
for seemingly harmless updates.

## Automating Everything

Once on-boarding is done, you're ready to set up automation.

Automation validates your React Native dependencies during builds and PRs. It
also keeps the dependency manager up-to-date, including the built-in list of
known/good React Native package versions and releases. This list can change
frequently, based on the volatility of the React Native ecosystem.

### Builds

To validate dependencies during a build, you'll integrate the
`check-dependencies` command into your build workflow.

In each of your React Native packages, add it to the `build` command:

```json title="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "... existing-stuff ... && yarn fix-dependencies"
  }
}
```

_Replace `yarn` with `npm run` or `pnpm`, depending on your package manager._

When the validation process finds a compatibility problem, it fails with a
detailed message, showing you what went wrong before you commit to the repo.

:::tip Using a Task Runner?

If you're using a task runner like [Lage](https://microsoft.github.io/lage) or

> [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com), you can go for a more sophistocated integration. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Gulp](https://gulpjs.com), you can go for a more sophisticated integration. The
```
nit: typo

### Dependency Manager Updates

The dependency manager comes with a built-in list of known/good React Native
package versions and releases. Keeping the dependency manager up-to-date gives
you the latest compatibilty data.

If you are in GitHub, use
[Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-version-updates/about-dependabot-version-updates)
to keep your packages up-to-date, including the dependency manager. If you host
your repo elsewhere, you can use tools like [Snyk](https://snyk.io) instead.

When a dependency manager update happens, the associated PR loop may fail with
incompatible package errors. This is OK. It means the built-in list of React
Native package versions has changed, and you need to update your packages in
response.

Run this command from the root of your repo. It uses the dependency manager to
make the fixes automatically.

<PackageRunCommand args="rnx-dep-check --write" />

**Review** and **test** the fixes before pushing them to the PR with the
dependency manager update.

## Upgrading React Native

When you're ready to upgrade to a new release of React Native (or downgrade to

> an old release), you can use the dependency manager to do the heavy lifting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an old release), you can use the dependency manager to help you out.
```
One thing I think we need to make sure is to not confused anyone about the fact that folks will still have to do the hard work, which is doing all the changes the upgrade helper will tell them to do https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/

we only change versions of stuff.

tag. That means it only applies to React Native 0.63 and above.

:::

Next, configure each of your on-boarded React Native packages to use the list.

```json title="package.json"
{
  "rnx-kit": {
    "customProfiles": "path/to/dependency-profile.json"
  }
}
```

Now its time to use the list. Run the dependency manager to update all of your
packages.

<PackageRunCommand args="rnx-dep-check --vigilant 0.66 --customProfiles path/to/dependency-profile.json --write" />

**Review** and **test** the changes before continuing.

The last step is updating the automation. Each command needs an extra
`--customProfiles [path]` parameter.

- Pull Requests: Change the `rnx-dep-check --vigilant [version]` command
- Dependency Manager Updates: Change the `rnx-dep-check --write` command
- Upgrading React Native: Change the
  `rnx-dep-check --vigilant [version] --write` command

## Finish Line

Congratulations! Your React Native apps and libraries are now up-to-date and
compatible with each other! And they should stay that way thanks to the
automation you've put in place!

Was this guide helpful? Spread the word on [Twitter](https://twitter.com):

> `@ReactNativeMSFT` `#rnxkit`

Reviewer: I wonder if there's a way we can turn this into something similar to a callout (like the Tips or Alerts ones) and replicate it across the different pages

Author: I moved it into a markdown fragment file which we can embed anywhere like a UI control.
